## Synopsis ##

After [configuration of the Solution](../../../31.Solution/Configuration.md), *two* Projects 
will be started -- Server first, then Client.  

How Visual Studio starts up the Client is important to understand to debug it later.


## Background ##

The solution's Properties is where is defined how the Visual Studio 
starts it up:

* Right Click the *Client* Project,
* In `App.Base.Client.Web.csproj`
* Under `Properties`,
* Under `Deploy`,
* Under `General`,
* `Startup Command` is set to:

```
npm start
```

*Node Package Manager* (`npm`) in turn reads its configuration file:

* In `package.json`
* Under `scripts/start` 
* there's the command to launch the Angular's Server:

```
ng serve --ssl --ssl-cert %APPDATA%\\ASP.NET\\https\\%npm_package_name%.pem --ssl-key %APPDATA%\\ASP.NET\\https\\%npm_package_name%.key
```

The default port for Angular server is 4200. 

It can be changed two ways:

* Updating the `ng serve` command to include the port number:

```
ng serve --ssl --ssl-cert %APPDATA%\\ASP.NET\\https\\%npm_package_name%.pem --ssl-key %APPDATA%\\ASP.NET\\https\\%npm_package_name%.key --port 4201
```

* or better yet, edit the angular server config file:

* In `angular.json`,
* Under `projects/AppClient.Web/architect/serve/options/
* put another entry: `"port":4201`

Note:
although the above change changes the serer, 
it won't automagically change it in all the text instructions, 
etc. that Visual Studio may have developed when creating the project.
That's won't impact functionality though.


### Debugger ###

But you do have to update Visual Studio debugger to follow along,
configured via the `launch.json` under a `.vscode` folder in your project.

* In Solution Explorer
* Select `Show All Files`
* Select the angular client project
* Select the `.vscode` folder
* Select the `launch.json` file
* Change the port:

```js
{
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "type": "chrome",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "localhost (Chrome)",
      "url": "https://localhost:4201",
      "webRoot": "${workspaceFolder}"
    },
    {
      "type": "edge",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "localhost (Edge)",
      "url": "https://localhost:4201",
      "webRoot": "${workspaceFolder}"
    }
  ]
}

```

Note:
Not yet clear if `launch.json` is only of use in Visual Studio Code, or Visual Studio also.


### Proxy ###

Whereas the Angular is being hosted by one server (`ng`), 
The server is being hosted by another server technology, 
so can't share the same port (it's a different process...).

Hence why the Angular is being hosted at port 4201.
And the server is being hosted at port -- in this case -- 7021.

But notice that any request from Angular, back to its 'server' would 
be redirected back to port 4021...where there is no server. 
So what needs to happen is that certain requests get proxied from 
the server at 4201 through to 8201 (you'll see in a second how you know
it's 8201).

That's what the `proxy.conf.js` does.

```js
const PROXY_CONFIG = [
  {
    context: [
      "/debug/**",
      "/api/**",
      "/$odata/**",
      "/swagger/**"
    ],
    target: "https://localhost:8201",
    secure: false,
    headers: {
      Connection: 'Keep-Alive'
    }
  }
]
```
Tip:
I'm *ALWAYS* forgetting that the proxy paths have to start with a slash...
(And if you'll need some other configuration with certs to be able to 
set secure:true).

Note:
Notice that where the proxy file is in the file hierarchy varies on the 
Asp.Net Core template you start with (go figure...).
Anyway. It can be moved to the root folder (where other config files for 
the server are located) as long as you tell it where to find it, which is
done in the `angular.json` file:

```json
  "projects": {
    "App.Client.Web": {
      "architect": {
        "serve": {
          "options": {
            // eg: Remove src if you move it to the root folder:
            "proxyConfig": "src/proxy.conf.js"
... 
```

### Service Url/Port ###
As for how you know what the service port (the IIS one),
it's done by:

* In Solution Explorer
* In the service Project
* Under Properties
* In `launchSettings.json`
* Use the https one within `applicationUrl` (in this case 8201)

```js
 "profiles": {
    "App.Service.Host.Web": {
      "commandName": "Project",
      "launchUrl": "swagger",
      "environmentVariables": {
        "ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT": "Development"
      },
      "dotnetRunMessages": true,
      "applicationUrl": "https://localhost:8201;http://localhost:5021"
    },
    ...
 }
```

### Names ###

Aside from the port, there's the project name.

When you develop a new solution (eg: `"App.Client.Web"`) it gets embedded in other files
in different ways:

* In `package.json`, 
  * under `name` (eg: `"name": "app.client.web"`).
* In `package-lock.json`, 
  * under `name` (eg: `"name": "app.client.web"`)
* In `karma.conf.js` 
  * under `coverageReporter/dir` (eg: `dir: require('path').join(__dirname, './coverage/app.client.web')`)
* In `angular.json`: 
  * the `projects` childnode (eg: `"App.Client.Web":...`),
  * the `outputPath` (eg: `"outputPath": "dist/app.client.web",`)
